WebInk is a minimal framework for ruby assisting in website development. It
uses rack to dispatch and works under linux. Database adapters shipped with
webink are sqlite3 and mysql; a generic SQL adapter is available which can
be extended to access your favorite SQL database. Look into the sqlite3 or
mysql adapters for guidance.

Here is a small guide to installing it.

Not part of this guide is how to proxy from lighttpd/apache/nginx to the
rack-compatible server, as there are so many tutorials out there already.





== Requirements

A linux server with ruby, rubygems, (lighttpd or apache or nginx), (mysql or
sqlite3) and the installed gems rack, (mysql or sqlite3) and webink.
Also required is a rack-compatible server like thin or webrick, as the apache
would only be proxy for the thin/webrick installation. Most rack-compatible
servers are available as gems.




== Installation

The project folder can be located anywhere on the system, but most admins
seem to like /var/www as its root. Some web hosters even encourage you to
use your home folder. Where ever this may be, you need to provide a certain
structure, so the dispatcher can find its resources. Assume the project
foldername "blog".

  config.rb   --this configures the project
  config.ru   --the rackup file to run the project
  routes.rb   --configures all the routing
  controllers --this folder contains all controller files
  models      --this folder contains all models
  views       --this folder contains all views
  files       --all static files should be located here

To fetch this folder structure initially, call webink_init which comes
with the gem. It will initialize your project with sample values.

After creating some models, you can run webink_database to initialize
the tables, and for some advanced use cases, copy the webink_database
and use the loaded models to easily import data.

For more information on the folders, have a look at the sample project.




== Production

The config.rb comes with a production setting (see documentation on database.rb)
which will hide all errors behind the appropriate HTTP error codes.

To this day, no caching is done when enabling production, it is just a
convenient way to hide possible stack traces.




== Testing

A small unit test suite is provided in the github repos. You can run it by
cloning the github repos, navigating into the folder and running

  ruby test/run.rb

WebInk can be unit tested quite easily, unless you have no sqlite3 gem
installed.




== Project Future

Due to the fact, that a VPS does not cost nearly enough anymore as it did a
few years back and lacking time to maintain this gem, I am hereby marking
this gem as 'final' and will not provide anymore updates.

Fork away if you so please :).
